---
title: "First Impressions"
layout: my-post
excerpt: If you do any of these things in your work emails, for the love of Abya Yala, fix them now...

---
### Email Etiquette

#### First Impressions
This post relates to professional emails, not personal ones. If you're unsure if an email counts as professional

Emails are often the first point of contact with new acquaintances and colleagues. As professionals of various levels, email messages are an opportunity to represent ourselves as mature, intelligent, thoughtful, capable, and serious. On the flip side of that, emails also present an opportunity to make a bad impression--to demonstrate a lack of seriousness or care that can stay with out interlocutor for the long run. This post is to emphasize that you should take emails seriously, particularly first emails and messages sent in an "official capacity"--as a representative of an organization, as the organizer of a panel, as an enrollee in a course, etc. I expand on various topics below in some detail, including register, tone, content, succinctness, etc., but here are the short takeaways that every graduate student and junior scholar should implement when emailing in a professional capacity:

* Use spell check. 
* Proofread your email and make sure there are no spelling mistakes or glaring grammatical errors. 
* No emojis. 
* Don't use weird fonts or colors.
* Include a brief email signature.
* Have a kind, but professional tone. 
* Be brief and to the point, but provide sufficient information.

#### No-ji to the Emoji
I would suggest that, if you are writing someone you do not yet know, you should never use an emoji in a first message. Likewise, if you are writing a professional message to someone you do not have a personal relationship with, you should absolutely not use emojis. 

#### Use spellcheck then read and reread your email for typos.
This relates to the above piece of advice on strategic writing. You should think strategically about how you spend your time, what activities you become involved in, what service you say "yes" to, where you present papers and who you present with, etc. It may seem craven to think of every aspect of your university experience as contributing to your academic profile. However, I would ask: if you aren't here to build an academic profile and eventually get a job (then tenure, then promotion, etc.), then what are you doing?

The more serious the email, the more serious you should take this. If you are writing your current professor who you have seen in the halls and you have had positive interactions with, you don't need to stress and obsess over emails too much. However, if you are writing a professor from another university, for instance, to serve as a keynote speaker or to visit and give a lecture, then you should read and reread that email, and probably have another person look over the email, to ensure there are no errors.


#### Too formal is always better than too informal
Especially with a first message, it is best to hedge toward formality rather than taking a personal, casual tone. Especially if you are communicating with a superior, you should begin formal and then base future interactions on his/her/their response. 

#### When in doubt or if the stakes are high, have a mentor or respected colleague read over an email
As undergrads, graduate students, or faculty members, we should be autonomous individuals that don't need input and advice on everything we write. Likewise, we should not obsess over

#### Use timesaving strategies
There are more important things in life than email, and my intention with this post is not to create anxiety or undue stress about email exchanges. If you notice a typo in an email, don't worry! It happens to the best of us, and people understand. My point is that it is important to use a certain level of care in email messages, particularly when we are junior scholars and we haven't _earned_ the right to use a casual tone or register or throw emojis in every message.
